Let's move on then to styling this,
and in our instructions,
we'll show you what this
is gonna look like.
So we're going to set up
a horizontal nav bar.
We're going to start by creating
the navbar that we're gonna see on mobile
devices, and on tablet.
Now in a more professional
setting here and
in fact in my advanced CSS layouts
course here at Front End masters.
I have walked through how to set up
a hamburger button using only CSS.
And so, but that takes a lot of
extra time in order to set that up.
So I've left that out in
this particular course,
if you're interested there is you can go
watch that advanced CSS layouts course.
I will cover the how to put in a hamburger
button with just CSS in detail for
the purposes of this course and
to keep this simple.
We're going to use this particular
layout here, for both mobile and for
tablet settings.
So the first thing that
we need to do then is,
we need to make our navbar go
horizontally across the page.
And we need to put the name on top and
make it bigger, and
we wanna put all of our
links there underneath.
So that is the first goal that
we have with our styling,
just to worry about the text and
to make that magic happen.
So let's go through exactly how
we might go about doing that.
So for our navbar,
we have lots of HTML elements
that we can work with here in our styling.
And so the first thing that I wanna do is,
set up my default font family and
I wanna set up a little bit of broad
padding for the entire navbar altogether.
And so to do that, we can just simply use
the nav element itself as our selector.
And we'll set our font-family, To Mono,
because that's what we
wanted in our design here.
You see, we have Mono down here, okay?
And then on the top,
our name is in the oxygen song saref.
And then after that,
we can set our font size, and
just sort of throw you
a little bit of a curveball.
I've set it to 80%.
Now you may not have ever seen percent's
used in font sizing here before, but
it works exactly as you would expect, take
the base font size and reduce it by 80%.
So whatever that base font size
happens to be, whether it's the H1,
which is really big.
Or whether it's the list items
which are smaller, take it and
multiply whatever that font
size value is by a percent.
And it proportionately
shrinks everything down.
So you see here that I didn't
have to go through and
specify a whole bunch of different sizes,
everything scaled appropriately.
And then I'm going to add to this
some padding, 1 rem on all sides.
Now let's take a look at that H1, my name.
I would actually like to have that,
as I said with the oxygen sans serif font.
So let's set that up.
How would we go about creating a style
that would target just Jen Kramer here?
And there are many selectors that
can be used to make this happen, but
this is a link inside of an h1
inside of a navigation environment.
So remember that when you write CSS
selectors you're going to write them.
Just like everything
else we write in English.
We write them from left to right.
But we read them from right to left.
Read your selectors from right to left.
So I'm trying to Carga Jen Kramer.
I'm going to start with a,
that's gonna be my link.
That's gonna be my furthest
right selector, followed by h1,
that will be my middle selector and
then nav will be the one on the far left.
Okay, so nav h1 a.
Here I'm gonna have a font-family
of var sans, Okay?
So now I have my first link, my name.
It has a sans serif font and
all of the rest of them
have the Mono font.
All right,
now we can style the navbar as a whole.
So nav ul.
For every navbar you ever
write from forever forward,
this is the kind of style that
you can copy over and over again.
It's always gonna start
with these three things.
We're gonna start with our list, style
type of none that turns off the bullets.
But you'll notice that we're
still indented slightly,
that is because the ul element and
the ol element have by default
on them from your browser either
padding or margin [LAUGH].
It depends on what browser you're
working with, sometimes it's margin,
sometimes it's padding, but that's what's
responsible for indenting your list.
So we'll 0 both of them because we don't
know which browser people will use.
So we'll say padding:0, margin:0, and
that will pull everything over
to the left side of the page.
Okay, so the next thing we'll
do is we'll go to Flexbox.
The reason we're going
to use Flexbox here,
is because we have one
long line of navigation.
And we want to put this going
horizontally across the page, and
we may ultimately wind up wanting
to reorder some of these things.
We definitely want to change
the layout over time.
Fortunately, Flexbox can be really,
really simple in this kind of environment.
There's only a handful of
properties you need to know.
And in fact, for say 85, even 90%
of the work that you do in Flexbox,
these are the properties are gonna be the
ones you use over and over and over again.
All of the other ones that they might have
covered in your boot camps or whatever,
those are all extras,
they're all exceptions to the rule.
These are really the core
properties here inside of Flexbox.
So to set this up,
we're gonna say display: flex.
Now put everything together in a very
ugly sort of line on the page.
There we go.
I often say flex flow: row wrap: we do
want these navigational elements to wrap
onto another line.
We don't want them to all crammed together
as in a no wrap type of situation,
we do want to have that
flexibility of wrapping.
We can justify content of center: so
this is going to center
us in space horizontally.
So justify content is the main axis
of what you're working with inside
of Flexbox.
So here that is the row will
center everything within the row.
And we can also say a line items:center.
This is the vertical axis in this
particular case because we're working
with a row justify content that
pertains to the horizontal space.
Align items in this particular case
is applying to the vertical space,
which is the cross axis.
And then so they're not in line,
but don't worry, we'll fix this.
And then gap is a new property you might
have heard about or you might not have.
So a really great invention inside
of Flexbox that just recently became
available, it will assign you a space
in between all of these elements.
So we're gonna set that up to be 2rem.
So we have a nicely spaced navbar here.
So we already have all the bones
of our navbar in place,
with just a few properties
here on the page.
How are people doing so far?
Have any questions at this point?
>> You put nav h1 as your selector,
is it a good idea to skip the nav
ul li h1 and your selector?
>> Yeah, so
why did we not say nav h1 ul li a?
Yeah, you totally could do that.
That would be absolutely fine.
There's nothing wrong
with that whatsoever.
That would be a more specific selector
than what I'd specified here as just nav,
h1 a.
My philosophy on this is always
to put in as little as possible.
And the reason you wanna put in as little
as possible in your CSS selectors, is so
that they're always available
to be overridden later.
Also, fewer elements in your
selectors make them more readable.
So here, in my mind this is saying,
we're targeting the a portion of
this link it's inside of the h1.
And we're gonna put it in the navbar and
all of those things are important to
understanding what that selector does.
You absolutely could add a ul,
li you wouldn't affect anything here
on the page Mitt just makes your
selector longer, that's all.
So yeah, that's one of those
things you could go either way,
I guess it's sort of
a stylistic type of question.